the Allrecipes cook who shared this
recipe for rich and creamy tomato basil
soup broke the secret to the richness of
this soup is to use real butter fresh
basil leaves and heavy cream first we'll
prepare the fresh tomatoes bring a
medium pot of water to a boil make an
ice bath in a large bowl and set that to
the side slit four tomatoes at the
bottom making small shallow X's this
will aid in the actual peeling of the
tomato later now plunge the tomatoes
into the boiling water and allow them to
cook for about 30 seconds or just until
the X begins to peel back and the tomato
skin breaks using a spider or a slotted
spoon remove the tomatoes and immerse
them in an ice bath
let the tomatoes sit in the ice bath for
at least five minutes
now once the tomatoes have chilled peel
and discard the tomato skin
cut the tomatoes in half scoop the seeds
out and discard them
then chop the tomatoes in a large stock
pot over medium heat add the tomatoes
along with four cups of tomato juice
and bring to a boil reduce the heat and
simmer for 30 minutes while the tomatoes
cook pick and clean 14 leaves of fresh
basil
you
at the end of 30 minutes remove the
stock pot from the heat add the fresh
basil puree the tomato soup mixture with
an immersion blender if you have one
now stir in one cup of heavy whipping
cream and half a cup of butter return
the soup to the heat but keep it from
boiling season the soup with salt to
taste and pepper to taste
once the creamy tomato basil soup is
heated through it's ready to serve
garnish with fresh basil Allrecipes
member curtis says if anybody ever asks
for homemade tomato soup of any kind let
this be the definitive one it would be
hard to do better